README.md, before:

# Vector+ Studio v0.7

**True Content-Addressable Recall via Neural Lattice Physics**

Vector+ Studio is a semantic search application powered by a 16-million neuron physics simulation. Unlike traditional vector databases that rely purely on embedding similarity, Vector+ uses a CUDA-accelerated lattice of spiking neurons to create noise-tolerant, content-addressable memory patterns.

![Vector+ Studio Screenshot](docs/screenshot.png)

## Features

- **Semantic Search**: Find documents by meaning, not just keywords
- **Neural Lattice Physics**: 4096x4096 neuron simulation with Hebbian learning
- **Noise Tolerance**: 86%+ correlation even with 30% input corruption
- **Document Ingestion**: Import PDFs, Word docs, and text files
- **Memory Cartridges**: Save and load document collections

## Quick Start

### Requirements

- Windows 10/11
- NVIDIA GPU with CUDA support
- Python 3.10+

### Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/project-you-apps/vector-plus-studio.git
cd vector-plus-studio
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Run

```bash
streamlit run vector_plus_studio_v7.py
```

Then open http://localhost:8501 in your browser.

## How It Works

1. **Thermometer Encoding**: Each embedding dimension maps to a 64x64 region of the lattice
2. **Physics Simulation**: Neurons interact via facilitation, inhibition, and Hebbian learning
3. **Signature Generation**: Each pattern creates a unique 4096-float "fingerprint"
4. **Content-Addressable Recall**: Partial or noisy inputs recover the full pattern

## Project Structure

```
vector-plus-studio/
├── vector_plus_studio_v7.py     # Main Streamlit application
├── multi_lattice_wrapper_v7.py  # Python wrapper for CUDA engine
├── thermometer_encoder_generic_64x64.py  # Encoding utilities
├── bin/
│   └── lattice_cuda_v7.dll      # Pre-built CUDA physics engine
├── cartridges/                   # Your saved document collections
└── sample_data/                  # Sample datasets
```

## System Requirements

| Component | Minimum | Recommended |
|-----------|---------|-------------|
| GPU | NVIDIA GTX 1060 | NVIDIA RTX 3080+ |
| VRAM | 4 GB | 8+ GB |
| RAM | 8 GB | 16+ GB |
| CUDA | 11.0+ | 12.0+ |

## License

**Dual-Licensed:**

| Component | License | Commercial Use |
|-----------|---------|----------------|
| Python code (`.py` files) | MIT | Yes |
| CUDA Engine (`bin/*.dll`) | Proprietary | [Contact for license](mailto:licensing@project-you.app) |

The Python wrapper and utilities are open source under MIT. The compiled CUDA physics engine is free for personal, educational, and non-commercial use. Commercial use requires a separate license - see [bin/LICENSE](bin/LICENSE).

## Links

- [Project You](https://project-you.app) - Parent project

---

Built with physics, not just math.

Commit message:

V8: Embedding search + lattice vis updates

README.md, after:

# Vector+ Studio v0.8

**Semantic Search with Neural Lattice Visualization**

Vector+ Studio is a semantic search application powered by a 16-million neuron physics simulation. Search uses fast embedding cosine similarity while the neural lattice provides real-time visualization of query and result activation patterns.


![Vector+ Studio Screenshot](docs/screenshot.png)

## What The Program Is Now

**Vector+ Studio Version version 0.8** is a test demo proving the the neuromorphic physics work and can load and compare embeddings with fidelity using cosine similarity the same as any vector database on the market. The filesizes of the pkl sample data files are similar to typical flat index files but smaller than HNSW.

## Features

- **Semantic Search**: Find documents by meaning, not just keywords
- **Neural Lattice Visualization**: See query and result patterns on a 4096x4096 neuron lattice
- **Noise Tolerance**: 86%+ correlation even with 30% input corruption
- **Document Ingestion**: Import PDFs, Word docs, and text files
- **Memory Cartridges**: Save and load document collections

## Quick Start

### Requirements

- Windows 10/11
- NVIDIA GPU with CUDA support
- Python 3.10+

### Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/project-you-apps/vector-plus-studio.git
cd vector-plus-studio
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Run

```bash
streamlit run vector_plus_studio_v8.py --server.fileWatcherType none
```

Then open http://localhost:8501 in your browser.

**Note:** The `--server.fileWatcherType none` flag prevents unnecessary reloads during use.

### First Search

The first search will take ~30 seconds while the embedding model (Nomic Embed v1.5) downloads and loads. Subsequent searches are fast (~500ms).

## How It Works

1. **Thermometer Encoding**: Each embedding dimension maps to a 64x64 region of the lattice
2. **Physics Simulation**: Neurons interact via facilitation, inhibition, and Hebbian learning
3. **Signature Generation**: Each pattern creates a unique 4096-float "fingerprint"
4. **Content-Addressable Recall**: Partial or noisy inputs recover the full pattern

## Project Structure

```
vector-plus-studio/
├── vector_plus_studio_v8.py     # Main Streamlit application
├── multi_lattice_wrapper_v7.py  # Python wrapper for CUDA engine
├── thermometer_encoder_generic_64x64.py  # Encoding utilities
├── bin/
│   └── lattice_cuda_v7.dll      # Pre-built CUDA physics engine
├── cartridges/                   # Your saved document collections
└── sample_data/                  # Sample datasets
```

## System Requirements

| Component | Minimum | Recommended |
|-----------|---------|-------------|
| GPU | NVIDIA GTX 1060 | NVIDIA RTX 3080+ |
| VRAM | 4 GB | 8+ GB |
| RAM | 8 GB | 16+ GB |
| CUDA | 11.0+ | 12.0+ |

## License

**Dual-Licensed:**

| Component | License | Commercial Use |
|-----------|---------|----------------|
| Python code (`.py` files) | MIT | Yes |
| CUDA Engine (`bin/*.dll`) | Proprietary | [Contact for license](mailto:licensing@project-you.app) |

The Python wrapper and utilities are open source under MIT. The compiled CUDA physics engine is free for personal, educational, and non-commercial use. Commercial use requires a separate license - see [bin/LICENSE](bin/LICENSE).

## Links

- [Project You](https://project-you.app) - Parent project

## Future Direction and Updates

- The next version of this project will utilize its unique physics to perform hybrid searches. Data filesizes will also be smaller.
- Planned upgrades include CUDA speed improvements currently underway.

---

Built with physics, not just math.
